# Build and Install

**Last Updated:** September 18, 2025

## Build

Assuming that [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/ "https://nodejs.org/") is installed.

1. clone this repository locally or download the file.
2. place the file in any local directory.
3. move it to the directory where ```package.json``` is located.
4. run ```npm install``` to install the dependencies required for development.

This section covers how to build the extension for development and production.

### Development (Watch Mode)
For efficient development, you can use watch mode. This will automatically rebuild the extension whenever you make changes to the source files.

> [!NOTE]
> The files generated in watch mode are for development purposes only. They are not minified or optimized for production. Always use a production build for public release.

- **for Chrome**:
  ```
  npm run dev:chrome
  ```
- **for Firefox**:
  ```
  npm run dev:firefox
  ```
> [!NOTE]
> Dev mode does not support Firefox MV3. For alternatives, see https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/230#issuecomment-1806881653

### Production / Manual Build
Use these commands to create a production-ready build or to perform a single manual build for testing.

- **for Chrome**
    - **Development**: `npm run build:chrome:dev` (with source maps)
    - **Production**: `npm run build:chrome:prod` (non source maps)
- **for Firefox**
    - **Development**: `npm run build:firefox:dev` (with source maps)
    - **Production**: `npm run build:firefox:prod` (non source maps)

> [!NOTE]
> The availability of source maps is controlled by the `build.sourcemap` setting in `wxt.config.ts`, which is toggled based on the `--mode` flag passed to the `wxt` command (e.g., `--mode sourcemap`).

## Installation (Load an unpacked extension)

To install the extensions generated by the build, follow the steps below. Note, built extensions are not automatically updated.

### for Chrome and Chromium-based browsers

1. enter ```chrome://extensions``` in a new tab or open the **Manage Extensions** page from the toolbar.
2. enable **Developer Mode** by clicking the toggle switch next to Developer mode.
3. click the **Load unpacked** button, select the extension directory you have built.
4. The extension has been installed, provided its configuration is valid.

### for Firefox and Firefox-based browsers

1. Enter `about:debugging` in a new tab.
2. Click on **This Firefox**.
3. Click the **Load Temporary Add-on...** button.
4. Select the `manifest.json` file from the build directory (e.g., `.output/firefox-mv3/manifest.json`).
5. The add-on will now be loaded temporarily, assuming its manifest is valid.